Grants as configs - Core v1.2 (#1642)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/building-a-dbt-project/hooks-operations.md

- Create a share on Snowflake
- Cloning a database on Snowflake

dbt provides hooks and operations so you can version control and execute these statements as part of your dbt project.

## About hooks

Hooks are snippets of SQL that are executed at different times:
  * `pre-hook`: executed _before_ a model, seed or snapshot is built.
  * `post-hook`: executed _after_ a model, seed or snapshot is built.
  * `on-run-start`: executed at the _start_ of `dbt run`, `dbt seed` or `dbt snapshot`
  * `on-run-end`: executed at the _end_ of `dbt run`, `dbt seed` or `dbt snapshot`

> Hooks are a more-advanced capability that enable you to run custom SQL, and leverage database-specific actions, beyond what dbt makes available out-of-the-box with standard materializations and configurations.

Reviewer: 👍

  * `on-run-start`: executed at the _start_ of `dbt run`, `dbt seed` or `dbt snapshot`
  * `on-run-end`: executed at the _end_ of `dbt run`, `dbt seed` or `dbt snapshot`

Hooks can help you leverage database-specific actions to expand dbt.

You can define hooks in your `dbt_project.yml` file. Pre- and post-hooks can also be defined in a `config` block.

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.2">

In order to streamline hooks and automatically apply grants when your dbt model runs, we recommend using [`grants` resource-config](/reference/resource-configs/grants).  

### Examples using hooks

You can use hooks to trigger actions at certain times when running an operation or building a model, seed, or snapshot.

For more information about when hooks can be triggered, see reference sections for [`on-run-start` and `on-run-end` hooks](on-run-start-on-run-end) and [`pre-hook`s and `post-hook`s](pre-hook-post-hook).

You can use hooks to provide database-specific functionality not available out-of-the-box with dbt. 

For example, you can use a `config` block to run an `ALTER TABLE` statement right after building an individual model using a `post-hook`:

> <WHCode>

Reviewer: I left some specific comments correcting the syntax on each warehouse, but I also want to be clear that all the examples below are _simple grant statements_, and we should be encouraging anyone on v1.2+ to use the `grants` config instead.

We should explicitly discourage them from using `post-hook` for simple grants. Instead, they should use `post-hook` if and only if:
- they need to apply grants in a more complex way, which the v1.2 `grants` config does not (yet) support
- they need to do other custom post-processing that dbt does not (yet) support via out-of-the-box configuration — e.g. [`analyze table`](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/sql-ref-syntax-aux-analyze-table.html), [`alter table set property`](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/sql-ref-syntax-ddl-alter-table.html), [`alter table ... add row access policy`](https://docs.snowflake.com/en/sql-reference/sql/alter-table.html), etc

Author: Added here: https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/1642/commits/44e2ef211cb53d609332aedd7eec5e7e2e4af5d5 but need to edit more

Reviewer: It's still a bit weird to see the `post-hook` examples below all featuring simple `grant` statements, when we've explicitly said above that users should NOT use `post-hook` to achieve that functionality.

It would make more sense to me if the section below was `<VersionBlock lastVersion="1.1">`, and then for v1.2+, we just had a generic placeholder post-hook (not `WHCode`) like:
```sql
{{ config(
    post_hook=[
      "alter table {{ this }} ..."
    ]
) }}
```

Author: I think I got it right this time. Added here: https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/1642/commits/668e2472672a32838b5544d29dfff2e28f70bf06

<div warehouse="BigQuery">

<File name='models/<model_name>.sql'>

```sql
{{ config(
    post_hook=[

>       "grant select on {{ this }} to role reporter"

Reviewer: BigQuery has different names for its privileges + grantees. So if you're writing the hook SQL yourself, this actually needs to look like:
```sql
'grant `roles/bigquery.dataViewer` on {{ this.type }} {{ this }} to "user:someone@yourcompany.com"'
```
If you're using the new-in-1.2 grants config, it will look like:
```yml
{{ config(grants = {'roles/bigquery.dataViewer': ['user:someone@yourcompany.com']}) }}
```

**This is relevant to our `grants` docs, too.** We need to call out that, while our examples use words like `select` and `another_user` because they're common on many databases, users will need to be aware of their own database's support syntax for:
- **privileges** (= a thing you can do in the database)
- **grantees** (= the recipients of granted privileges, also called "principals") — which could be a user, a group of users, a role held by users (Snowflake), a service account (GCP), ... 

(Very confusing: Google uses the word "role" to mean "privilege," whereas Snowflake uses the word "role" to mean "grantee" = a way of receiving privileges. Let's just try avoiding the word "role" if possible!)

Author: BigQuery distinction addressed in https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/1642/commits/f4c9578e38f22addf04835bcc9e0de536aef8528

Overall examples note addressed here: https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/1642/commits/8af57ee062cc36b91d3fad081d2969e723dc50eb

    ]
) }}

select ...

```

</File>

</div>

<div warehouse="Databricks">

<File name='models/<model_name>.sql'>

```sql
{{ config(
    post_hook=[

>       "grant select on {{ this }} to role reporter"

Reviewer: On Databricks, users are identified by their logins (= email addresses):
```sql
"grant select on {{ this }} to `someone@yourcompany.com`"
```

Author: Addressed in https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/1642/commits/f4c9578e38f22addf04835bcc9e0de536aef8528

    ]
) }}

select ...

```

</File>

</div>

<div warehouse="Redshift">

<File name='models/<model_name>.sql'>

```sql
{{ config(
    post_hook=[

>       "grant select on {{ this }} to role reporter"

Reviewer: Redshift doesn't use the word `role` in the way it's appearing here. This should be just:
```sql
"grant select on {{ this }} to reporter"
```

Author: Addressed in https://github.com/dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com/pull/1642/commits/f4c9578e38f22addf04835bcc9e0de536aef8528

    ]
) }}

select ...

```

</File>

</div>

<div warehouse="Snowflake">

<File name='models/<model_name>.sql'>

```sql
{{ config(
    post_hook=[

>       "grant select on {{ this }} to role reporter"

Reviewer: The word `role` is fine here for Snowflake, but it's not strictly necessary. This also works:
```sql
"grant select on {{ this }} to reporter"
```

dbt provides two different interfaces for you to version control and execute these statements as part of your dbt project — hooks and operations.

## About hooks

Hooks are snippets of SQL that are executed at different times:
  * `pre-hook`: executed _before_ a model, seed or snapshot is built.
  * `post-hook`: executed _after_ a model, seed or snapshot is built.
  * `on-run-start`: executed at the _start_ of `dbt run`, `dbt seed` or `dbt snapshot`
  * `on-run-end`: executed at the _end_ of `dbt run`, `dbt seed` or `dbt snapshot`

> Hooks can help you leverage database-specific actions to expand dbt. You can define hooks in your `dbt_project.yml` file. Pre- and post-hooks can also be defined in a `config` block.

Reviewer: My ongoing agenda to reset user expectations around hooks:
```suggestion
Hooks are a more-advanced capability that enable you to run custom SQL, and leverage database-specific actions, beyond what dbt makes available out-of-the-box with standard materializations and configurations.
```

Hooks are defined in your `dbt_project.yml` file. Pre- and post-hooks can also be defined in a `config` block.

<VersionBlock firstVersion="1.2">

In order to streamline hooks and automatically apply grants when your dbt model runs, we recommend using [`grants` resource-config](/reference/resource-configs/grants).  
### Advanced example for hooks

> </VersionBlock>

Reviewer: 👍

- I think we should remove the examples related to `grants` below, if someone's selected v1.2+. We could add an example with more complex privilege granting that won't be handled by the built-in feature
- Left some more pre/post-hook examples in [our Slack thread](https://dbt-labs.slack.com/archives/C03J5GFKDDJ/p1656604642649699)

Author: I removed grant examples for 1.2 and higher. Still need to add pre- and post-hook examples for 1.2+ .
